docs/guidelines/grant-applications.md, before:

---
title: Grant-Applications
icon: fontawesome/solid/hands-holding-circle
---
# Grant-Applications

## Financial Aid Grants for Attendees

As part of our commitment to the wider tech and data science community, we are pleased to offer special financial grants for attendees to join us at {{config.extra.event.event_name}}. Please follow the instructions below to apply for a grant.

We offer financial aid conference grants in the following categories:

- **Online Ticket:** Get a standard online ticket for the conference at no cost.
- **In-person Ticket:** Get a standard in-person ticket for the conference at no cost.
- **Regional[^1] Travel and Accommodation Costs:** We will reimburse travel costs up to 250€ and additionally offer an on-site ticket and accommodation[^2] during the conference.
- **Intercontinental Travel and Accommodation Costs:** We will reimburse travel costs up to 650€ and additionally offer an on-site ticket and accommodation[^2] during the conference.

While applying, we will ask you to estimate your travel and accommodation expenses.

### Grant Eligibility

Our grants are open to anyone in need of financial aid. The selection process will take into account the following criteria:

- **Economic Factors:**  
  We aim to ensure that everyone can attend, regardless of their financial situation or income level (e.g., students, unemployed individuals, or those experiencing economic hardships).

- **Diversity:**  
  We are committed to creating the most diverse and inclusive event possible.

- **Contributors:**  
  We value contributions to the community. Whether you are a project contributor or an active community member, your efforts will be considered in the selection process.

If you do not receive an in-person ticket or travel reimbursement, you will still be considered for a free online ticket.

### How to Apply

Please complete the [Financial Aid application form]({{config.extra.event.financial_aid_form}}).

### Timeline

- **{{config.extra.event.financial_aid_open}}:** The financial aid grant application opens.
- **{{config.extra.event.financial_aid_close}}:** Application deadline.
- **{{config.extra.event.financial_aid_notifications}}:** Applicants will be notified by email about the acceptance or rejection at the latest by this date.

Grants need to be accepted (or rejected) within seven days of notification.

### Reimbursement Management

#### Free Ticket  
Personalized coupons will be generated for grant recipients to claim their free ticket.

#### Travel Grant 
Grants involving reimbursements will be processed based on approved receipts (e.g., plane/bus/train tickets) submitted before the conference. Reimbursements will be made via bank transfer or PayPal after the conference.

**Please note:**

- The maximum grant amount will not exceed 250€/650€ per person, depending on the category (plus up to 150€ if you arrange your own lodging).
- If the grant is not accepted within the specified deadline, it will be considered rejected.
- Only approved invoices will be reimbursed.
- Reimbursements before the conference or via other means, such as cash, are not possible.
- Travel grants are only available to registered attendees who will be attending the conference in person.
- Grants are non-transferable.

As part of our efforts to reduce the conference's carbon footprint, we encourage attendees to use trains rather than airplanes when possible. Air travel will not be reimbursed if alternative transportation options are easily available. This will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis. Please consider this when estimating your travel costs.

### Become a Diversity Sponsor

You or your company can support our diversity initiative by becoming a sponsor. We offer a special "Diversity Sponsor" option that can be booked separately or included in our sponsor packages. For more details, please refer to our Sponsors page or contact our sponsorship team.

---

Thank you, and we look forward to seeing you at {{config.extra.event.event_name}}.

---

[^1]: {{config.extra.event.financial_aid_regional_countries}}

[^2]: We'll pre-book shared hotel rooms near the venue. This helps secure better rates and provides documentation for visa applications. Use the form to tell us if you prefer to arrange your own lodging. If you do, we can reimburse up to 150€ for your stay.

Commit message:

Clarify grant coverage: exclude Masterclasses day from FinAid (#22)

docs/guidelines/grant-applications.md, after:

---
title: Grant-Applications
icon: fontawesome/solid/hands-holding-circle
---
# Grant-Applications

## Financial Aid Grants for Attendees

As part of our commitment to the wider tech and data science community, we are pleased to offer special financial grants for attendees to join us at {{config.extra.event.event_name}}. Please follow the instructions below to apply for a grant.

We offer financial aid conference grants in the following categories:

- **Online Ticket:** Get a standard online ticket for the conference at no cost.
- **In-person Ticket:** Get a standard in-person ticket for the conference at no cost.
- **Regional[^1] Travel and Accommodation Costs:** We will reimburse travel costs up to 250€ and additionally offer an on-site ticket and accommodation[^2] during the conference.
- **Intercontinental Travel and Accommodation Costs:** We will reimburse travel costs up to 650€ and additionally offer an on-site ticket and accommodation[^2] during the conference.

While applying, we will ask you to estimate your travel and accommodation expenses.

### Grant Eligibility

Our grants are open to anyone in need of financial aid. The selection process will take into account the following criteria:

- **Economic Factors:**  
  We aim to ensure that everyone can attend, regardless of their financial situation or income level (e.g., students, unemployed individuals, or those experiencing economic hardships).

- **Diversity:**  
  We are committed to creating the most diverse and inclusive event possible.

- **Contributors:**  
  We value contributions to the community. Whether you are a project contributor or an active community member, your efforts will be considered in the selection process.

If you do not receive an in-person ticket or travel reimbursement, you will still be considered for a free online ticket.

### How to Apply

Please complete the [Financial Aid application form]({{config.extra.event.financial_aid_form}}).

### Timeline

- **{{config.extra.event.financial_aid_open}}:** The financial aid grant application opens.
- **{{config.extra.event.financial_aid_close}}:** Application deadline.
- **{{config.extra.event.financial_aid_notifications}}:** Applicants will be notified by email about the acceptance or rejection at the latest by this date.

Grants need to be accepted (or rejected) within seven days of notification.

### Reimbursement Management

#### Free Ticket  
Personalized coupons will be generated for grant recipients to claim their free ticket.

#### Travel Grant 
Grants involving reimbursements will be processed based on approved receipts (e.g., plane/bus/train tickets) submitted before the conference. Reimbursements will be made via bank transfer or PayPal after the conference.

**Please note:**

- The maximum grant amount will not exceed 250€/650€ per person, depending on the category (plus up to 150€ if you arrange your own lodging).
- If the grant is not accepted within the specified deadline, it will be considered rejected.
- Only approved invoices will be reimbursed.
- Reimbursements before the conference or via other means, such as cash, are not possible.
- Travel grants are only available to registered attendees who will be attending the conference in person.
- Grants are non-transferable.
- The **Masterclasses day** (April 17th) is **not** covered by the grant.

As part of our efforts to reduce the conference's carbon footprint, we encourage attendees to use trains rather than airplanes when possible. Air travel will not be reimbursed if alternative transportation options are easily available. This will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis. Please consider this when estimating your travel costs.

### Become a Diversity Sponsor

You or your company can support our diversity initiative by becoming a sponsor. We offer a special "Diversity Sponsor" option that can be booked separately or included in our sponsor packages. For more details, please refer to our Sponsors page or contact our sponsorship team.

---

Thank you, and we look forward to seeing you at {{config.extra.event.event_name}}.

---

[^1]: {{config.extra.event.financial_aid_regional_countries}}

[^2]: We'll pre-book shared hotel rooms near the venue. This helps secure better rates and provides documentation for visa applications. Use the form to tell us if you prefer to arrange your own lodging. If you do, we can reimburse up to 150€ for your stay.
